Honey never spoils — edible honey’s been found in 3,000-year-old Egyptian tombs.

Octopuses have three hearts and blue blood.

Bananas are berries, but strawberries aren’t.

A day on Venus (243 Earth days) is longer than its year (225 days).

Wombat poop is cube-shaped so it won’t roll away.

Some turtles breathe through their butts (cloacal respiration).

Scotland’s national animal is the unicorn.

A group of flamingos is called a flamboyance.

Koalas have fingerprints nearly identical to humans.

There are more trees on Earth (~3 trillion) than stars in the Milky Way (~100–400 billion).

A bolt of lightning can reach 30,000 K—five times hotter than the Sun’s surface.

Sea otters hold hands while sleeping so they don’t drift apart.

Cows form best-friend bonds and get stressed when separated.

The first computer “bug” was an actual moth trapped in Harvard’s Mark II (1947).

The hashtag symbol (#) is officially called an octothorpe.

Sloths can hold their breath for up to 40 minutes by slowing their heart rate.

Venus flytraps count prey touches before snapping shut (usually two).

The dot over “i” and “j” is called a tittle.

Russia’s land area is larger than Pluto.

A teaspoon of neutron-star material weighs about 6 billion tons.

Oxford University dates to around 1096—older than the Aztec empire.

The Eiffel Tower grows by up to 15 cm in summer (thermal expansion).

Sharks existed before trees—sharks: ~400 M years, trees: ~350 M years.

Peanuts are legumes, not true nuts.

Giraffes have the same number of neck vertebrae as humans: seven.

Humans share about 60% of their DNA with bananas.

A group of crows is called a murder.

Rats laugh when tickled (in ultrasonic frequencies).

Narwhal tusks reveal age and health like tree rings.

Turkeys can blush—head and neck color change with mood.

Mantis shrimp punch at 50 mph, creating cavitation bubbles.

“Zombie-ant” fungus (Ophiocordyceps) hijacks ant behavior to spread spores.

The oldest recorded “your mom” joke is 3,500 years old (Babylonian).

The shortest war lasted 38 minutes (Britain vs. Zanzibar, 1896).

Avocados were named after the Aztec word for testicles (“ahuacatl”).

The inventor of Pringles is buried in a Pringles can.

Lightning strikes Earth about 100 times per second.

A snail can sleep for up to three years.

Elephants are the only mammals that can’t jump.

Beethoven composed even after becoming totally deaf.

The world’s quietest room (Microsoft’s anechoic chamber) measures –20.35 dB.

Butterflies taste with their feet.

Bubble wrap was originally invented as wallpaper.

Penguins propose to their mates with a pebble.

“Robot” comes from Czech “robota,” meaning forced labor.

Camels have three eyelids to keep out sand.

The Great Wall of China isn’t visible from the Moon with the naked eye.

A group of ferrets is called a business.

Armadillos can hold their breath and walk underwater.

Dolphins use unique “signature whistles” like names.

The Suez Canal saves about 6,000 miles of sea travel between Europe and Asia.

Hot water can freeze faster than cold water under certain conditions (Mpemba effect).

There’s an underwater post office in Vanuatu.

Apples float because they’re 25% air.

LIGO first detected gravitational waves from colliding black holes in 2015.

A cockroach can live for weeks without its head.

The first emoji set was created in 1999 by Shigetaka Kurita.

The world’s largest desert is Antarctica (not the Sahara).

The first VCR (1956) was the size of a piano.

Humans shed about 600,000 skin cells per hour.

Carrots were originally purple, not orange.

Iceland has no native mosquitoes.

The oldest chewing gum is 9,000 years old.

A hummingbird’s heart can beat 1,260 times per minute.

The Amazon River carries more water than the next seven largest rivers combined.

A “jiffy” is 1/100th of a second in computing.

Water can boil and freeze at the same time at its triple point.

The world’s longest wedding veil was longer than 63 football fields.

Your taste buds renew about every two weeks.

The unicorn is Scotland’s national animal.

Human and chimp DNA is about 98.8% identical.

The first person convicted of speeding went 8 mph in 1896.

There are more public libraries in the U.S. than McDonald’s restaurants.

You can start a fire by shaping ice into a lens.

Cats have 230 bones; humans have 206.

Honeybees can recognize human faces.

The human nose can detect over 1 trillion distinct scents.

Lake Baikal (Russia) is the deepest freshwater lake at 1,642 m.

The tongue is the only muscle attached at one end.

“Alphabet” comes from Greek letters alpha and beta.

Earth’s inner core (~5,700 K) is as hot as the Sun’s surface.

Moonquakes occur on the Moon, much like earthquakes.

The world’s smallest reptile (Brookesia chameleon) fits on a fingertip.

Female ferrets can suffer fatal anemia if they don’t mate.

The first gold coins were minted in Lydia (~600 BCE).

A Martian day (“sol”) is 24 h 39 m 35 s long.

Coca-Cola would be green if not for added coloring.

Slugs have four noses.

“Droid” is trademarked by Lucasfilm.

Angel Falls (Venezuela) drops 979 m—Earth’s tallest waterfall.

The Sahara was once a lush, green savannah.

Charles Babbage designed the first mechanical computer in the 1830s.

Some lizards squirt blood from their eyes to scare predators.

Rafflesia arnoldii produces the world’s largest single flower (up to 1 m across).

Jellyfish have existed for over 500 million years.

Pigeons can be trained to detect cancer by scent.

The only U.S. state without the letter “A” in its name is Vermont.

A blue whale’s heart is the size of a small car.

The phrase “sleep tight” comes from tightening bed ropes on old beds.

One teaspoon of honey is the life’s work of about 12 bees.